Let's walk through actually adding alert manager to
Prometheus so that we can start sending out alerts.
Before going too far we need to make sure that our Prometheus instance or wherever we're
going to install alert manager has port 9093 open and ready for traffic.
Let's go in and take a look at that in the AWS console.
Now here at the console, I'm going to select the
"Prometheus Instance" and then I'm going to scroll
this down here at the bottom in
the bottom panel and look into the Security Groups section.
I see that I've got my Prometheus security group and I'm just going
to click on "View" to see the inbound rules here.
I've got several ports one of them is 9093 which is the port that alert manager uses.
So we're good there.
Now if you need to log back in to your instance,
then you should go ahead and copy
that host name once more and head on back to your terminal.
I happened to have my terminal still open,
so I'm just going to stop Prometheus and right here in the Prometheus folder.
I'm going to add a new file,
I'm going to call this rules.yml.
This is the file that will hold all the rules that will trigger my alerts later on.
So from the tutorial,
I'm just going to paste in the code that will be my rules.
Now unfortunately, and as always we need to double check our yml indentation.
Two spaces here, three spaces there,
two spaces there, comments don't really matter.
That looks about right. Now, let's take a look at this file real quick.
This is creating a set of groups.
Each group has a name,
so in this case we have all instances.
We're going to say the alert should
be using too much memory.
Now let's define our expression Let's say that we only want an alert when the free memory
is less than one million bytes and this is for one minute.
So if for some reason a machine just takes a momentary dip down or something like that,
it won't actually throw an alert unless it has been in this state for a whole minute.
The annotation is what is going to be in
the alert message that we are able to see later on.
So this is going to say instance,
and we'll change this to "Is almost out of memory" and of course this is critical.
Save the file and exit.
Now we need to go into the Prometheus configuration file
and let it know that we have a new rules file.
We'll just go down here to the rule files section and
simply make a small modification so that it knows about our rules yml file,
save the changes and exit.
Now you should be able to start Prometheus backup with no errors.
If there is an error here Prometheus will tell you,
and it's probably going to be something to do with indentation of that yml file.
But if you see the wall of text, it's all good.
So we're back in Prometheus and now we should be able to see some alerts that are here.
They're not active right now,
but we do see the alert showing up in Prometheus.
You can actually click on this and see some of the details,
too much memory, almost out of memory. We're good here.